[DOCS] Add simulate ref (#58579)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/indices/simulate-template.asciidoc

<<indices-templates, index template>>.

////
[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _component_template/component_template1
{
  "template": {
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "@timestamp": {
          "type": "date"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT _component_template/other_component_template
{
  "template": {
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "ip_address": {
          "type": "ip"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT _index_template/template_1
{
  "index_patterns": ["te*", "bar*"],
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "number_of_shards": 1
    },
    "mappings": {
      "_source": {
        "enabled": false
      },
      "properties": {
        "host_name": {
          "type": "keyword"
        },
        "created_at": {
          "type": "date",
          "format": "EEE MMM dd HH:mm:ss Z yyyy"
        }
      }
    },
    "aliases": {
      "mydata": { }
    }
  },
  "priority": 10,
  "composed_of": ["component_template1", "other_component_template"],
  "version": 3,
  "_meta": {
    "description": "my custom"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

> // TESTSETUP

Reviewer: Not a big deal, but you could probably simplify this setup to just include the index template.

Seems like a lot of setup that isn't ever surfaced to the user.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
DELETE _index_template/*
DELETE _component_template/*
--------------------------------------------------
// TEARDOWN
////

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_index_template/_simulate/template_1
--------------------------------------------------

[[simulate-template-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_index_template/_simulate/<index-template>`

[[simulate-template-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<index-template>`::
(Optional, string)

> The name of the index template to simulate.
> To simulate an arbitrary template configuration, 
> omit this parameter and specify the template configuration in the request body.

Reviewer: As before, I'd drop the first article from these defs.

I also wonder if `arbitrary template configuration` really gets at the intended use here:
`If you want to simulate an index template before creating it,...`
```suggestion
Name of the index template to simulate.
+
To simulate an arbitrary template configuration, 
omit this parameter and specify the template configuration in the request body.
```

[[simulate-template-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

`cause`::

> (Optional, string) The reason for using the specified template for the simulation. 

Reviewer: This doesn't look like a valid param for this API either.

`create`::
(Optional, boolean) If `true`, the template passed in the body is 

> only used if no existing template matches the same index pattern. 

Reviewer: I think this is plural?
```suggestion
only used if no existing templates match the same index patterns. 
```

> If `false`, the template with the highest priority is used for the simulation.

Reviewer: Nit: passive voice
```suggestion
If `false`, the simulation uses the template with the highest priority.
```

> Note that the template is not permanently added or updated in either case, 

Reviewer: I believe a semicolon is required here.
```suggestion
Note that the template is not permanently added or updated in either case;
```

it is only used for the simulation.
Defaults to `false`.

include::{es-ref-dir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]

[[simulate-template-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`composed_of`::
(Optional, array of strings)
An ordered list of component template names. Component templates are merged in the order

> specified, meaning that the last component template specified has the highest precedence. See 
> <<multiple-component-templates,Composing multiple component templates>> for an example.

Reviewer: Nit: I tend to stick phrases like `for an example` in the front of the sentence.
```suggestion
specified, meaning that the last component template specified has the highest precedence. 
For an example, see 
<<multiple-component-templates,Composing multiple component templates>>.
```

`index_patterns`::
(Required, array of strings)

> Array of wildcard expressions

Reviewer: Just in case someone doesn't know `*` is used as the wildcard char.
```suggestion
Array of wildcard (`*`) expressions
```

used to match the names of indices during creation.

`priority`::
(Optional, integer)
Priority to determine index template precedence when a new index is created. The index template with

> the highest priority is chosen. If no priority is specified the template is treated as though it is
> of priority 0 (lowest priority).

Reviewer: I may be missing something, but I think we can simply say this default to `0`.
```suggestion
the highest priority is chosen. Defaults to `0` (lowest priority).
```

This number is not automatically generated by {es}.

`template`::
(Optional, object)

> This is the template to be applied, may optionally include a `mappings`,
> `settings`, or `aliases` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Template to be apply. This template may include `mappings`,
`settings`, and `aliases` configurations.
```

`version`::
(Optional, integer)
Version number used to manage index templates externally.
This number is not automatically generated by {es}.

> `_meta`::
> (Optional, object)
> Optional user metadata about the index template. May have any contents.
> This map is not automatically generated by {es}.

Reviewer: It may be good to include some suggestions here. Or mention that the data is arbitrary.
```suggestion
`_meta`::
(Optional, object)
Metadata about the index template.
This metadata is not used or automatically generated by {es}.
```

> [[simulate-template-api-response-body]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[role="child_attributes"]
[[simulate-template-api-response-body]]
```

==== {api-response-body-title}

> `overlapping`::

Reviewer: When I tested, `overlapping` came after `template`. I'd reorder to match the response.

(array) Any templates that were superseded by the specified template.
+
.Properties of `overlapping`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`name`::
(string) The name of the superseded template.

`index_patterns`:: 
(array) The index patterns that the superseded template applies to.
====

> `template`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`template`::
(object)
```

The template settings, mappings, and aliases that would be applied to matching indices. 

> 

Reviewer: I would include a collapsible section that documents the properties of the `template` object, similar to the simulate index API.

[[simulate-template-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[[simulate-existing-template-ex]]
===== Simulating an existing template

The following example creates and simulates a composed template:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /_component_template/ct1                   <1>
{
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "index.number_of_shards": 2
    }
  }
}

PUT /_component_template/ct2                    <2>
{
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "index.number_of_replicas": 0
    },
    "mappings": {
      "properties": {
        "@timestamp": {
          "type": "date"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT /_index_template/final-template            <3>
{
  "index_patterns": ["logdata-*"],
  "composed_of": ["ct1", "ct2"],
  "priority": 5
}

POST /_index_template/_simulate/final-template <4>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Creating a component template (ct1) setting the number of shards to two
<2> Creating another component template (ct2) setting the number of replicas to zero with mappings
<3> Creating an index template called "final" template using ct1 and ct2

> <4> Simulate the settings composed using the "final-template" index template

Reviewer: See edits in simulate index API.

> The response shows the index settings, mappings, and aliases applied by the final-template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response shows the index settings, mappings, and aliases applied by the `final-template` template:
```
